Significant changes were observed in all types as well as overall when compared with their predicted values, apart from public order offences. These differences were mostly drops in crime during the initial announcement of a coronavirus lockdown, they would then stabilise and get closer to the predicted values as lockdown measures relaxed. When the third national lockdown was announced in January, a similar dropping effect was noticed but with less intensity than the first.

Comparing the predicted crime rates to the actual crime rates resulted in significant differences being observed for all crime types apart from public order offences. The rest were significantly lower apart from drug offences which rose greatly. Over time, all started to stabilise and return to around predicted levels, with the exception of the third national lockdown in January 2021 which caused another drop. For more accurate predictions, more data from years prior to 2017 could be included. 

When looking at regional differences across the UK, all crime rates followed a similar pattern with peaks at troughs appearing at the same points immediately post-lockdown announcement. The crime types also followed these same patterns in each region, the South East had the most pronounced increases and decreases and saw a rise in theft offences when the other regions saw a fall. Whilst this could be attributed to population, we also see that the South East has the second lowest crime rate per 10,000 citizens which may contrast with the fact that it has the highest population. This rise in thefts could be linked instead with the absence of people in shopping centres, offices & construction sites. This leads to easier ability to access and steal from these areas, many of which are located in the South East. 

The probabilities of certain outcomes occurring did not change excessively, with the highest change being 9% over the time period for drug offences. Whilst not necessarily related to coronavirus, it is interesting to observe the large differences in outcomes between crime types. All crime types varied greatly in the probability of an outcome, with ‘Unable to prosecute suspect’ and ‘No suspect identified’ usually being the largest.  

The outcomes by region were far more uniform, it again appears that coronavirus lockdowns had little effect on each outcome. The greatest change being in the South West with an increase of 8% for being unable to prosecute a suspect. In contrast to the 
